Programming Language used :- Python 3.6


Web Famework used :- Django 2.2


Database used :- SQLite3


Libraries used :-
    1. pillow :- for using images in the web project.
    2. django-crispy-forms :- for stying the html forms used in the project.
    3. bootstrap4 :- css libraray used in html pages
    4. jquery3 :- required for functioning of bootstrap4

django project name :- blogapp


web apps in the project :-
    1. accounts :- for handling the account related information of the users.
    2. blog :- for managing the blogs.


files in the root directory(i.e blogapp folder) of the project :-
    1. __init__.py :- indicates that it is package.

    2. settings.py :- all the settings of the web project are in this file
        The lists used in it are :-
            ALLOWED_HOSTS :- list of all allowed hosts
            INSTALLED_APPS :- list of all installed apps in this project
            MIDDLEWARE :- list of all the middleware
            TEMPLATES :- information about the HTML templates
            AUTH_PASSWORD_VALIDATORS :- information about the django inbuilt
					password validators
        The dictionaries used in it are :-
            DATABASES :- information about the database

    3. urls.py :- manages url requests of the project and contains url patterns.
        The dictionaries used in it are :-
            a. urlpatterns :- for storing the urlpatterns

    4. wsgi.py :- one the auto created files by django, it forwards requests to
		  the web application.


accounts app contains:-
    1. __init__.py :- indicates that it is package

    2. admin.py :- for registering models in admin site

    3. apps.py :- for starting the signals.py file

    4. forms.py :- for managing the forms
        Classes used :-
            a. RegistrationForm :- for creating the user register form
            b. UserUpdateForm :- for updating user info
            c. ProfileUpdateForm :- for updating user profile
        Tuples used :-
            a. fields :- for giving the names of the fields that are to be
			 included in the form.

    5. models.py :- manages the tables in the database. Each class in this file
		    represents a table in the database.
        Classes used :-
            a. Profile :- represents User-Profle table in the database
                Functions in the class are :-
                    a. __str__ :- returns the string form of the object
                    b. save :- for saving the user profile

    6. signals.py :- for creating a profile for a user whenever a new account is
		     created.
        The functions in it are :-
            a. create_profile :- for creating user profile
            b. save_profile :- for saving the user profile

    7. urls.py :- for url handling of the accounts app.
        The dictionaries used in it are :-
            a. urlpatterns :- for storing the urlpatterns

    8. views.py :- handles the views for the different url requests.
        The functions used in it are :-
            a. signup_user :- for signing up the new user
            b. login_user :-  for loging in the user
            c. logout_user :- for loging out the user
            d. user_profile :- for showing the profile of the current user
            e. show_user_profile :- for showing the profile of any user
        The dictionaries used :-
            The dictionaries used in this file are for passing the data values
	    from a python program to a html page.


blog app contains:-
    1. __init__.py :- indicates that it is package

    2. admin.py :- for registering models in admin site

    3. apps.py

    4. forms.py :- for managing the forms
        Classes used :-
            a. CreateBlog :- for creating a new blog
            b. Blog_review_form :- for creating a new blog review i.e comment
        Tuples used :-
            a. fields :- for giving the names of the fields that are to be
			 included in the form.

    5. models.py :- manages the tables in the database. Each class in this file
		    represents a table in the database.
        Classes used :-
            a. Blog :- represents Blog table in the database
                Functions in the class are :-
                    a. __str__ :- returns the string form of the object
                    b. get_link :- link for showing the details of individual blog
                    c. snippet :- snippet of the blog if its body is exceed 50
				  characters for showing in the blog list
                    d. img_file_name :- getting the image file name of the blog
					for deleting it whenever the blog is
					deleted
            b. Blog_reviews :- represents Blog-review table in the database
                Functions in the class are :-
                    a. __str__ :- returns the string form of the object


    6. urls.py :- for url handling of the blog app
        the dictionaries used in it are :-
            a. urlpatterns :- for storing the urlpatterns

    7. views.py :- handles the views for the different url requests
        The functions used in it are :-
            a. list :- displays the list of all the blogs
            b. blog_detail :- showing the detail og the blog
            c. create_blog :- for creating a new blog
            d. delete_blog :- deletes a particular blog from the database
            e. delete_blog_review :- deletes a particular blog-review i.e comment
				     from the database
            f. comment_blog :- for creting comment for a blog
            g. edit_blog :- for editing a blog
            h. delete_blog_confirmation :- asks for confirmation before deleting
					   a blog
            i. about :- displays the about page
            j. announcements :- displays the announcements page
            k. calenders :- displays the calenders page
            l. portfolio :- displays the portfolio page which is also the first
			    page of the website
        The dictionaries used :-
            the dictionaries used in this file are for passing the data values
	    from a python program to a html page


Other folders in the project include :-
    1. css :- conatins the css files
        a. portfolio.css
        b. style.css

    2. images :- contains images of the project

    3. templates: - conatins all the HTML templates for the blogapp project

Files in the root directory of the project :-
1. db.sqlite3 :- database file for the blogapp project.

2. manage.py :- manages and controls the entire project. It is used to manage 
		the web server and database management.
